Alpha docs for CLI (#3879)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation.md

---
title: Installing the dbt Cloud CLI (Alpha)
id: cloud-cli-installation
description: "Instructions for installing and configuring dbt Cloud CLI"
---

:::warning Alpha functionality 

The following installation instructions are for the dbt Cloud CLI, currently in alpha. These instructions are not intended for general audiences at this time. 

::: 

## Installing dbt Cloud CLI

> ### Install and update with Brew (recommended)

Reviewer: "### Install and update with Brew on MacOS (recommended)"

> ### Install and update with Brew (recommended)

Author: ```suggestion
### Install and update with Brew on MacOS (recommended)
```

Install the CLI: 

```bash
brew tap dbt-labs/dbt-cli
brew install dbt-cloud-cli
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
which dbt
dbt --help
```

> 

Reviewer: Could we make "upgrading" an aside or a callout? It currently feels like a necessary next step.

> Upgrade the CLI:

Author: ```suggestion
### Upgrade the CLI
```

```bash
brew update
brew upgrade dbt-cloud-cli
```

> ### Manually install (Windows only)

Reviewer: "### Manually install (Windows and Linux)"

> ### Manually install (Windows only)

Author: ```suggestion
### Manually install (Windows and Linux)
```

> 1. Download the latest darwin release from [Github](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbti/releases).

Reviewer: "Download the latest release for your platform from [Github](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-cli/releases)."

Note that the url changed

> 1. Download the latest darwin release from [Github](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbti/releases).

Author: ```suggestion
1. Download the latest darwin release from [Github](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-cli/releases).
```

> 2. Place the `dbt` executable in `/usr/local/bin` or `/usr/.local/bin` if `/usr/local/bin` doesn’t exist.

Reviewer: Replace 2+3 with:
"Add the `dbt` executable to your path."

> 2. Place the `dbt` executable in `/usr/local/bin` or `/usr/.local/bin` if `/usr/local/bin` doesn’t exist.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Add the `dbt` executable to your path.
```

> 3. Navigate to `/usr/local/bin` / `/usr/.local/bin` in Finder and double click on the `dbt` executable:

Author: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to your `dbt` path in Finder and double-click on the `dbt` executable:
```

    1. You will receive a message that the executable is untrusted and cannot be run. Override this by right-clicking the executable and selecting “Open”. A new prompt will pop up, allowing you to open the executable.
    2. After clicking “Open”, a terminal window will appear. The window can be closed, and you can now invoke `dbt` from any other terminal*.
        - You may need to deal with conflicts due to other `dbt` installations. Run `which dbt` to see the location of the `dbt` installation you’re using. If you get `/usr/local/bin/dbt` from `which dbt`, you’re using the one you just installed. If not, you may need to uninstall other installations, directly invoke the executable, or handle path conflicts differently, such as using an alias for the new executable.
4. Move to a directory with a dbt project, and create a `dbt_cloud.yml` file containing your `project-id` from dbt Cloud.
5. Invoke `dbt --help` from your terminal to see a list of supported commands.

> #### Updating dbt Cloud installation (Windows only)

Reviewer: Change to "#### Updating dbt Cloud installation (Windows + Linux)"

> #### Updating dbt Cloud installation (Windows only)

Author: ```suggestion
#### Updating dbt Cloud installation (Windows + Linux)
```

Follow the same process in [Installing dbt Cloud CLI](#manually-install-windows-only) and replace the existing `dbt` executable with the new one. You should not have to go through the security steps again.

## Setting up the CLI

> 1. Ensure that you have created a project in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer: Add link to https://cloud.getdbt.com/

> 1. Ensure that you have created a project in dbt Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that you have created a project in [dbt Cloud](https://cloud.getdbt.com/).
```

> 1. Ensure that you have created a project in dbt Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that you have created a project in [dbt Cloud](https://cloud.getdbt.com/).
```

> 2. Ensure that your personal [development credentials](#glossary) are set on the project

Reviewer: Add link to https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile/credentials

> 2. Ensure that your personal [development credentials](#glossary) are set on the project

Author: ```suggestion
2. Ensure that your personal [development credentials](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile/credentials) are set on the project.
```

> 2. Ensure that your personal [development credentials](#glossary) are set on the project

Author: ```suggestion
2. Ensure that your personal [development credentials](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile/credentials) are set on the project
```

> 3. Create an environment variable with your [dbt cloud API key](#glossary):

Reviewer: Replace link to point to "https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile#api-access"

> 3. Create an environment variable with your [dbt cloud API key](#glossary):

Author: ```suggestion
3. Create an environment variable with your [dbt cloud API key](https://cloud.getdbt.com/settings/profile#api-access):
```

```bash

   > $ vi ~/.zshrc

   ...

   # dbt Cloud CLI
    export DBT_CLOUD_API_KEY="1234"
   
```

4. Load the new environment variable. Note: you may need to reactivate your python virtual environment after sourcing your shell's dot file. Alternatively, restart your shell instead of sourcing the shell's dot file

```bash
   > $ source ~/.zshrc
```

5. Navigate to a dbt project

```bash
   > $ cd ~/dbt-projects/jaffle_shop
```

6. Ensure that a `dbt_cloud.yml` file exists in the project directory. The file is required to have a `project-id` field with a valid [project ID](#glossary):

> 

Reviewer: "You can find your project id by selecting your project and clicking on "documentation" in the navigation bar.  Your project id is the number in the url: https://cloud.getdbt.com/documentation/1/projects/{project id}.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
You can find your project ID by selecting your project and clicking on **documentation** in the navigation bar. Your project ID is the number in the URL: https://cloud.getdbt.com/documentation/1/projects/{project id}.
```

```bash
> $ pwd
/Users/user/dbt-projects/jaffle_shop

> $ cat dbt_cloud.yml
project-id: '123456'
```

7. The following commands are supported as of now (we will be adding more in the future):

- `dbt run`
- `dbt build`
- `dbt deps`
- `dbt cancel`
- `dbt reattach`
- `dbt --help`

## Using dbt Cloud CLI

> **More informaiton coming soon**

Author: ```suggestion
**Coming soon**
```

### Glossary

> - **dbt cloud API key:** your API key found by navigating to the **gear icon**, clicking **Profile Settings**, and scrolling down to **API**.

Reviewer: Nice, didn't see these.  I think we can just link for the cloud API key, but keep the other ones in the glossary.
